# NNLMs and the De Re / De Dicto Distinction
Repository for a project investigating NNLM sensitivity to the De Re / De Dicto distinction.

The paper can be found here: https://scholarworks.umass.edu/scil/vol6/iss1/8/.

**Repository Contents:**

The `textfiles` folder contains the full lists of nouns and verbs handpicked for the synthetic dataset described in the paper, before random selection. 

The `drddroberta/wsc` folder contains a modified version of files in the [fairseq library used to finetune RoBERTa](https://github.com/facebookresearch/fairseq/tree/main/examples/roberta/wsc) on the [SuperGLUE WSC](https://super.gluebenchmark.com/) training data. These are required for the experiment to run properly.

The `csvfiles` folder contains our dataset both with (`..._processed.csv`) and without (`..._preprocessed.csv`) the raw scores we obtain from RoBERTa in the experiment; each is split into 4 chunks labelled `q1`-`q4`. The preprocessed dataset is generated by running the `sentence_generator.py` script, which requires that the `textfiles` folder is in the working directory. The processed dataset (i.e. including raw scores from RoBERTa) is generated by running the `get_roberta_scores.py` file for each chunk of the dataset; running the file requires that the `csvfiles` and `drddroberta/wsc` folders are both in the working directory.

The `statsandplots` folder contains the plots and regression included in the paper text, as well as the R script used to generate them. Running the R script from start to finish with `statsandplots` as the working directory will re-generate all of the plots, and will also re-fit the mixed-effects linear regression we report in the text. The regression takes several hours to fit, over 12 hours on one author's personal computer. To skip this step and read our regression from saved parameters, there are particular lines marked in the R file that should be commented out or deleted. If this is done, the R script should run from start to finish within a few minutes. Note that `git lfs` is needed to clone or download the `.rds` file containing the saved regression parameters.
